All right, let's talk a little bit
about filtering properties out.
And this is actually the last
section of this unit.
So, we'll go back to filtering
things out of an existing type.
So in this case, it's the document object,
as in, window.document.
So we can get keys here.
Keys that begin with query.
It's query anything,
that's what this means.
Query followed by string.
So we're gonna extract the keys of the
document type which match this pattern.
Again Ls in chat you're
asking about regex's.
Little regex, right?
You can you can specify a prefix and
then a wildcard can do everything,
in first kind of like capture groups,
right?
I mean, you can serve,
maybe this is a regex, who knows?
So, let's look at what we've got here.
We've got keyFilteredDuck.
Interesting, everything starts with query.
That's pretty great.
So, this is kind of what
we would hope to get.
Here's an example of what not to do.
And we're gonna compare it to what
worked out pretty well for us just now.
So, it's a different approach here,
where we are not filtering the keys first.
Here what we're doing is we're saying,
iterate over all keys
present in keyof Document.
And then as the value type here,
we have a conditional type.
So we're saying, all right,
for each key in Document,
if Document extends and
then what is this here?
It is a function that
accepts any arguments and
returns either an element or
an array of elements.
We don't care what the arguments are.
But the filter here is only those
functions that return an element or
an array of elements.
I tried to keep it in spirit with things
that begin with the word query on Document
cuz that's querying the DOM, right?
These are like, give me all the things to
get like one element or many elements.
And then if that condition is met,
here we are using Document[K], right?
That's kind of like this thing up here.
It effectively means,
let that thing pass through.
Give me the value type that was there,
otherwise, give me never.
Let's look at how that turned out.
Look at that junk,
look at all those nevers.
There are 249 more things here, and yes,
query selector is gonna be there and
it's gonna have the correct type.
But we didn't filter the keys,
what you wanna do is filter
the keys in advance,
as we're doing up here, right?
We extracted the keys that
met a particular condition,
and then put them through the map type.
This is similar to array.map, right?
You're gonna get something
out of the array.map.
It's the same length of
the array that you put in.
That's how mapping works.
If you want it to filter and
then map, you do them in that order.
But if you want as your mapping,
to try to filter things out,
it's almost like the best you could
do is set things equal to null.
You're gonna end up with a bunch of
nulls in the array and then, okay,
now we've gotta go filter all those
nulls out, it's kind of a pain.
So these are two ways of doing this, but
clearly, first of all, this is less code.
This is much easier to debug.
But this is a mistake people make
sometimes where you gotta remember
a map type, it's you're gonna get
generally the same keys you put in.
You're going to get
those as properties out.
You're gonna get one for each.
And the fact that we haven't
filtered here means well it has
the same number of properties
as the full document object,
but most of it's just not useful and
not usable.
This will slow down your TypeScript
compilation because it's gotta think about
all these fields that are there,
and they're read-only, and
they're of type never, and type checking
against this is gonna be a pain.
So that's my advice there, and
here's filtering the keys first.
I think we already had this up top.
I think this is just an abbreviated,
sorry,
this is an abbreviated
version of the general case.
So up here we're using Document, right?
Document's hard-coded into our type and
down here,
this we're just calling it we're
calling it T is that type and
U is the set of keys.
And this is an example of
the ability to filter keys.
So for each key in T, if the value type
extends something you're interested in,
return the property name,
otherwise evaluate to never.
>> It was some time ago they
introduced a new way of operating on
the how you're iterating over
the key of or the keys of T.
Where you can put a filtering expression
before the right square bracket and
cast something, using the as keyword,
you can use T and
P to determine whether
to return the key or
never, and that sort of prefilters.
>> Really.
>> You're projecting into.
>> I honestly have never seen that.
Can you help us get to that syntax here?
>> Sure.
>> So the value filtered doc the bad way.
>> Yeah let's start here
>> And refactor that.
>> Let's do it.
>> If you take the Documents
[K] extends blah blah blah.
>> Over here.
>> Never
>> Yep.
>> So take take that whole block and
cut it.
Then we're gonna wanna paste
inside that square bracket,
just after keyof Document, yep.
>> This whole thing.
>> Yep.
>> Wow.
>> So as paste.
And then as.
>> And the ternary we should take out.
>> Instead of returning Documents[K],
just return K on 152.
>> So but we really want
a conditional here or do we want.
Sorry, I don't understand
>> So on 150,
it'll probably make sense as soon as
we finish and clean up the syntax.
>> Okay.
>> It's a little busted.
>> Let's do it Document[K].
>> Yep and then on 152,
Documents[K] should just be K.
Cuz what we wanna do is
prefilter all the keys.
>> Holy cow.
>> Yeah.
>> I learned something today.
>> So now if you hover over that on
148 you'll only get your ten or so.
>> There they are, adoptNode is there.
Yep, wow that is valid.
I somehow missed this.
That's really cool, we're filtering
the keys, I'm gonna delete this.
Oops, not the whole thing,
just the do not use it
>> I would still generally recommend as as
you have been use the utility types
because their way better maintained and
well understood they're idiomatic.
>> Yep.
>> This is if your hand rolling some super
stupid custom stuff this is
nice to know but [LAUGH].
>> That's super cool thank you for
pointing that out.